# cmdline.nim

Parse the command line.

* [cmdline.nim](../src/cmdline.nim) &mdash; Nim source code.
# Index

* type: [CmlMessageId](#cmlmessageid) &mdash; Possible message IDs returned by cmdline.
* type: [ArgsOrMessageKind](#argsormessagekind) &mdash; The kind of an ArgsOrMessage object, either args or a message.
* type: [CmlArgs](#cmlargs) &mdash; CmlArgs holds the parsed command line arguments in an ordered dictionary.
* type: [ArgsOrMessage](#argsormessage) &mdash; Contains the command line args or a message.
* type: [CmlOptionType](#cmloptiontype) &mdash; The option type.
* [newCmlOption](#newcmloption) &mdash; Create a new CmlOption object.
* [`$`](#) &mdash; Return a string representation of an CmlOption object.
* [`$`](#-1) &mdash; Return a string representation of a ArgsOrMessage object.
* [commandLineEcho](#commandlineecho) &mdash; Show the command line arguments.
* [collectParams](#collectparams) &mdash; Get the command line parameters from the system and return a list.
* [cmdLine](#cmdline) &mdash; Parse the command line parameters.
* [getMessage](#getmessage) &mdash; Return a message from a message id and problem parameter.
* [`$`](#-2) &mdash; Return a string representation of an Args object.

# CmlMessageId

Possible message IDs returned by cmdline. The number in the name is the same as its ord value.  Since the message handling is left to the caller, it is important for these values to be stable. New values are added to the end and this is a minor version change. It is ok to leave unused values in the list and this is backward compatible. If items are removed or reordered, that is a major version change.

```nim
CmlMessageId = enum
  cml_00_BareTwoDashes, cml_01_InvalidOption, cml_02_OptionRequiresParam,
  cml_03_BareOneDash, cml_04_InvalidShortOption, cml_05_ShortParamInList,
  cml_06_DupShortOption, cml_07_DupLongOption, cml_08_BareShortName,
  cml_09_AlphaNumericShort, cml_10_MissingParameter,
  cml_11_TooManyBareParameters, cml_12_AlreadyHaveOneParameter
```

# ArgsOrMessageKind

The kind of an ArgsOrMessage object, either args or a message.

```nim
ArgsOrMessageKind = enum
  cmlArgsKind, cmlMessageKind
```

# CmlArgs

CmlArgs holds the parsed command line arguments in an ordered dictionary. The keys are the supported options found on the command line and each value is a list of associated parameters. An option without parameters will have an empty list.

```nim
CmlArgs = OrderedTable[string, seq[string]]
```

# ArgsOrMessage

Contains the command line args or a message.

```nim
ArgsOrMessage = object
  case kind*: ArgsOrMessageKind
  of cmlArgsKind:
      args*: CmlArgs

  of cmlMessageKind:
      messageId*: CmlMessageId
      problemParam*: string


```

# CmlOptionType

The option type.

```nim
CmlOptionType = enum
  cmlParameter0or1,         ## option with a parameter, 0 or 1 times.
  cmlNoParameter,           ## option without a parameter, 0 or 1 times.
  cmlOptionalParameter,     ## option with an optional parameter, 0 or 1 times.
  cmlBareParameter,         ## a parameter without an option, 1 time
  cmlParameterOnce,         ## option without a parameter, 1 time.
  cmlParameterMany           ## option without a parameter, unlimited number of times.
```

# newCmlOption

Create a new CmlOption object.

```nim
func newCmlOption(long: string; short: char; optionType: CmlOptionType): CmlOption
```

# `$`

Return a string representation of an CmlOption object.

```nim
func `$`(a: CmlOption): string
```

# `$`

Return a string representation of a ArgsOrMessage object.

```nim
func `$`(a: ArgsOrMessage): string
```

# commandLineEcho

Show the command line arguments.

```nim
proc commandLineEcho()
```

# collectParams

Get the command line parameters from the system and return a list. Don't return the first one which is the app name. This is the list that cmdLine expects.

```nim
proc collectParams(): seq[string]
```

# cmdLine

Parse the command line parameters.  You pass in the list of supported options and the parameters to parse. The arguments found are returned. If there is a problem with the parameters, args contains a message telling the problem. Use collectParams() to generate parameters.

```nim
func cmdLine(options: openArray[CmlOption]; parameters: openArray[string]): ArgsOrMessage
```

# getMessage

Return a message from a message id and problem parameter.

```nim
func getMessage(message: CmlMessageId; problemParam: string = ""): string
```

# `$`

Return a string representation of an Args object.

```nim
func `$`(a: Args): string
```


---
⦿ Markdown page generated by [StaticTea](https://github.com/flenniken/statictea/) from nim doc comments. ⦿
