# funtypes.nim

Statictea function types and supporting routines.

* [funtypes.nim](../src/funtypes.nim) &mdash; Nim source code.
# Index

* type: [FunctionPtr](#functionptr) &mdash; Signature of a statictea function.
* type: [FunResultKind](#funresultkind) &mdash; The kind of a FunResult object, either a value or warning.
* type: [FunctionSpec](#functionspec) &mdash; The name of a function, a pointer to the code, and its signature code.
* type: [FunResult](#funresult) &mdash; Contains the result of calling a function, either a value or a warning.
* [newFunResultWarn](#newfunresultwarn) &mdash; Return a new FunResult object containing a warning.
* [newFunResultWarn](#newfunresultwarn-1) &mdash; Return a new FunResult object containing a warning created from a WarningData object.
* [newFunResult](#newfunresult) &mdash; Return a new FunResult object containing a value.
* [`==`](#) &mdash; Compare two FunResult objects and return true when equal.
* [`$`](#-1) &mdash; Return a string representation of a FunResult object.

# FunctionPtr

Signature of a statictea function. It takes any number of values and returns a value or a warning message.

```nim
FunctionPtr = proc (parameters: seq[Value]): FunResult
```

# FunResultKind

The kind of a FunResult object, either a value or warning.

```nim
FunResultKind = enum
  frValue, frWarning
```

# FunctionSpec

The name of a function, a pointer to the code, and its signature code.

```nim
FunctionSpec = object
  name*: string
  functionPtr*: FunctionPtr
  signatureCode*: string

```

# FunResult

Contains the result of calling a function, either a value or a warning.

```nim
FunResult = object
  case kind*: FunResultKind
  of frValue:
      value*: Value          ## Return value of the function.
    
  of frWarning:
      parameter*: Natural    ## Index of problem parameter.
      warningData*: WarningData


```

# newFunResultWarn

Return a new FunResult object containing a warning. It takes a warning, the index of the problem parameter, and the two optional strings that go with the warning.

```nim
func newFunResultWarn(warning: Warning; parameter: Natural = 0; p1: string = ""): FunResult
```

# newFunResultWarn

Return a new FunResult object containing a warning created from a WarningData object.

```nim
func newFunResultWarn(warningData: WarningData; parameter: Natural = 0): FunResult
```

# newFunResult

Return a new FunResult object containing a value.

```nim
func newFunResult(value: Value): FunResult
```

# `==`

Compare two FunResult objects and return true when equal.

```nim
func `==`(r1: FunResult; r2: FunResult): bool
```

# `$`

Return a string representation of a FunResult object.

```nim
func `$`(funResult: FunResult): string
```


---
⦿ Markdown page generated by [StaticTea](https://github.com/flenniken/statictea/) from nim doc comments. ⦿
