# parseNumber.nim

Parse an int or float number string.  Return the number and number of characters processed.

* [parseNumber.nim](../src/parseNumber.nim) &mdash; Nim source code.
# Index

* type: [IntAndLength](#intandlength) &mdash; IntAndLength holds a 64 bit signed integer and the number of characters processed.
* type: [FloatAndLength](#floatandlength) &mdash; FloatAndLength holds a 64 float and the number of characters processed.
* [newIntAndLength](#newintandlength) &mdash; Create a new IntAndLength object.
* [newFloatAndLength](#newfloatandlength) &mdash; Create a new FloatAndLength object.
* [parseFloat](#parsefloat) &mdash; Parse the string and return the 64 bit float number and the
number of characters processed.
* [parseInteger](#parseinteger) &mdash; Parse the string and return the 64 bit signed integer and number
of characters processed.

# IntAndLength

IntAndLength holds a 64 bit signed integer and the number of characters processed.

```nim
IntAndLength = object
  number*: int64
  length*: Natural

```

# FloatAndLength

FloatAndLength holds a 64 float and the number of characters processed.

```nim
FloatAndLength = object
  number*: float64
  length*: Natural

```

# newIntAndLength

Create a new IntAndLength object.

```nim
func newIntAndLength(number: int64; length: Natural): IntAndLength
```

# newFloatAndLength

Create a new FloatAndLength object.

```nim
func newFloatAndLength(number: float64; length: Natural): FloatAndLength
```

# parseFloat

Parse the string and return the 64 bit float number and the
number of characters processed. The number starts at the start
parameter index. Nothing is returned when the float is out of
range or the str is not a float number.  Processing stops at the
first non-number character.

A float number starts with an optional minus sign, followed by a
digit, followed by digits, underscores or a decimal point. Only
one decimal point is allowed and underscores are skipped.

```nim
proc parseFloat(str: string; start: Natural = 0): Option[FloatAndLength]
```

# parseInteger

Parse the string and return the 64 bit signed integer and number
of characters processed. The number starts at the start parameter
index. Parsing stops at the first non-number character.  Nothing
is returned when the integer is out of range or the str is not a
number.

An integer starts with an optional minus sign, followed by a
digit, followed by digits or underscores. The underscores are
skipped.

```nim
proc parseInteger(s: string; start: Natural = 0): Option[IntAndLength]
```


---
⦿ Markdown page generated by [StaticTea](https://github.com/flenniken/statictea/) from nim doc comments. ⦿
