# regexes.nim

Perl regular expression matching.

* [regexes.nim](../src/regexes.nim) &mdash; Nim source code.
# Index

* type: [Matches](#matches) &mdash; Holds the result of a match.
* type: [Replacement](#replacement) &mdash; Holds the regular expression and replacement for the replaceMany function.
* [getGroup](#getgroup) &mdash; Get the first group in matches if it exists, else return "".
* [get2Groups](#get2groups) &mdash; Get the first two groups in matches.
* [get3Groups](#get3groups) &mdash; Get the first three groups in matches.
* [matchRegex](#matchregex) &mdash; Match a regular expression pattern in a string.
* [matchPatternCached](#matchpatterncached) &mdash; Match a pattern in a string and cache the compiled regular expression pattern.
* [matchPattern](#matchpattern) &mdash; Match a regular expression pattern in a string.
* [newReplacement](#newreplacement) &mdash; Create a new Replacement object.
* [replaceMany](#replacemany) &mdash; Replace the patterns in the string with their replacements.

# Matches

Holds the result of a match.

```nim
Matches = object
  groups*: seq[string]
  length*: Natural
  start*: Natural

```


# Replacement

Holds the regular expression and replacement for the replaceMany function.

```nim
Replacement = object
  pattern*: string
  sub*: string

```


# getGroup

Get the first group in matches if it exists, else return "".

```nim
func getGroup(matches: Matches): string
```


# get2Groups

Get the first two groups in matches. If one of the groups doesn't exist, "" is returned for it.

```nim
func get2Groups(matches: Matches): (string, string)
```


# get3Groups

Get the first three groups in matches. If one of the groups doesn't exist, "" is returned for it.

```nim
func get3Groups(matches: Matches): (string, string, string)
```


# matchRegex

Match a regular expression pattern in a string.

```nim
func matchRegex(str: string; regex: Regex; start: Natural = 0): Option[Matches]
```


# matchPatternCached

Match a pattern in a string and cache the compiled regular expression pattern.

```nim
proc matchPatternCached(str: string; pattern: string; start: Natural = 0): Option[
    Matches]
```


# matchPattern

Match a regular expression pattern in a string.

```nim
func matchPattern(str: string; pattern: string; start: Natural = 0): Option[
    Matches]
```


# newReplacement

Create a new Replacement object.

```nim
func newReplacement(pattern: string; sub: string): Replacement
```


# replaceMany

Replace the patterns in the string with their replacements.

```nim
proc replaceMany(str: string; replacements: seq[Replacement]): string
```



---
⦿ Markdown page generated by [StaticTea](https://github.com/flenniken/statictea/) from nim doc comments. ⦿
