# signatures.nim

Statictea function signatures and parameter checking.

* [signatures.nim](../src/signatures.nim) &mdash; Nim source code.
# Index

* type: [ParamCode](#paramcode) &mdash; Parameter type, one character of "ifsldpa" corresponding to int, float, string, list, dict, func, any.
* type: [ParamKind](#paramkind) &mdash; The kind of parameter.
* type: [Param](#param) &mdash; Holds attributes for one parameter.
* [newParam](#newparam) &mdash; Create a new Param object.
* [paramCodeString](#paramcodestring) &mdash; Return a string representation of a ParamCode object.
* [`$`](#) &mdash; Return a string representation of a Param object.
* [kindToParamCode](#kindtoparamcode) &mdash; Convert a value type to a parameter type.
* [sameType](#sametype) &mdash; Check whether the param type is the same type or compatible with the value.
* [parmsToSignature](#parmstosignature) &mdash; Create a signature from a list of Params.
* [shortName](#shortname) &mdash; Return a short name based on the given index value.
* [signatureCodeToParams](#signaturecodetoparams) &mdash; Convert the signature code to a list of Param objects.
* [mapParameters](#mapparameters) &mdash; Create a dictionary of the parameters.

# ParamCode

Parameter type, one character of "ifsldpa" corresponding to int, float, string, list, dict, func, any.

```nim
ParamCode = char
```

# ParamKind

The kind of parameter.<ul class="simple"><li>pkNormal -- a normal parameter</li>
<li>pkOptional -- an optional parameter. It must be last.</li>
<li>pkReturn -- a return parameter.</li>
</ul>


```nim
ParamKind = enum
  pkNormal, pkOptional, pkReturn
```

# Param

Holds attributes for one parameter.
* name -- the parameter name
* paramCode -- the parameter code, one of: ifsldpa
* paramKind -- whether it is normal, optional or a return

```nim
Param = object
  name*: string
  paramCode*: ParamCode
  paramKind*: ParamKind

```

# newParam

Create a new Param object.

```nim
func newParam(name: string; paramKind: ParamKind; paramCode: ParamCode): Param
```

# paramCodeString

Return a string representation of a ParamCode object.

```nim
func paramCodeString(paramCode: ParamCode): string
```

# `$`

Return a string representation of a Param object.

```nim
func `$`(param: Param): string
```

# kindToParamCode

Convert a value type to a parameter type.

```nim
func kindToParamCode(kind: ValueKind): ParamCode
```

# sameType

Check whether the param type is the same type or compatible with the value.

```nim
func sameType(paramCode: ParamCode; valueKind: ValueKind): bool
```

# parmsToSignature

Create a signature from a list of Params.

```nim
func parmsToSignature(params: seq[Param]): string
```

# shortName

Return a short name based on the given index value. Return a for 0, b for 1, etc.  It returns names a, b, c, ..., z then repeats a0, b0, c0,....

```nim
proc shortName(index: Natural): string
```

# signatureCodeToParams

Convert the signature code to a list of Param objects.

```nim
func signatureCodeToParams(signatureCode: string): Option[seq[Param]]
```

# mapParameters

Create a dictionary of the parameters. The parameter names are the dictionary keys.  Return a FunResult object containing the dictionary or a warning when the parameters do not match the signature.  The last signature parameter is for the return type.

```nim
func mapParameters(params: seq[Param]; args: seq[Value]): FunResult
```


---
⦿ Markdown page generated by [StaticTea](https://github.com/flenniken/statictea/) from nim doc comments. ⦿
