# unicodes.nim

Functions that deal with Unicode.

* [unicodes.nim](../src/unicodes.nim) &mdash; Nim source code.
# Index

* [cmpString](#cmpstring) &mdash; Compares two UTF-8 strings a and b.
* [stringLen](#stringlen) &mdash; Return the number of unicode characters in the string (not bytes).
* [githubAnchor](#githubanchor) &mdash; Convert the name to a github anchor name.
* [htmlAnchor](#htmlanchor) &mdash; Convert the name to a html anchor (class) name.
* [parseHexUnicode16](#parsehexunicode16) &mdash; Return the unicode code point given a 4 character unicode escape string like u1234.
* [parseHexUnicode](#parsehexunicode) &mdash; Return the unicode code point given a 4 or 8 character unicode escape string.
* [codePointToString](#codepointtostring) &mdash; Convert a code point to a one character UTF-8 string.
* [codePointsToString](#codepointstostring) &mdash; Convert a list of code points to a string.
* [parseHexUnicodeToString](#parsehexunicodetostring) &mdash; Return a one character string given a 4 or 8 character unicode escape string.
* [slice](#slice) &mdash; Extract a substring from a string by its Unicode character position (not byte index).
* [visibleControl](#visiblecontrol) &mdash; Return a new string with the tab and line endings and other control characters visible.
* [startColumn](#startcolumn) &mdash; Return enough spaces to point at the start byte position of the given text.

# cmpString

Compares two UTF-8 strings a and b.  When a equals b return 0, when a is greater than b return 1 and when a is less than b return -1. Optionally ignore case.

~~~nim
func cmpString(a, b: string; insensitive: bool = false): int
~~~

# stringLen

Return the number of unicode characters in the string (not bytes). If there are invalid byte sequences, they are counted too.

~~~nim
func stringLen(str: string): Natural
~~~

# githubAnchor

Convert the name to a github anchor name.

~~~nim
func githubAnchor(name: string): string
~~~

# htmlAnchor

Convert the name to a html anchor (class) name.

~~~nim
func htmlAnchor(name: string): string
~~~

# parseHexUnicode16

Return the unicode code point given a 4 character unicode escape string like u1234. Start is pointing at the u. On error, return a message id telling what went wrong.

~~~nim
func parseHexUnicode16(text: string; start: Natural): OpResultId[uint32]
~~~

# parseHexUnicode

Return the unicode code point given a 4 or 8 character unicode escape string. For example like u1234 or u1234u1234. Advance the pos past the end of the escape string. Pos is initially pointing at the u. On error, return the message id telling what went wrong and pos points at the error.

~~~nim
func parseHexUnicode(text: string; pos: var Natural): OpResultId[uint32]
~~~

# codePointToString

Convert a code point to a one character UTF-8 string.

~~~nim
func codePointToString(codePoint: uint32): OpResultId[string]
~~~

# codePointsToString

Convert a list of code points to a string.

~~~nim
func codePointsToString(codePoints: seq[uint32]): OpResultId[string]
~~~

# parseHexUnicodeToString

Return a one character string given a 4 or 8 character unicode escape string. For example like u1234 or u1234u1234. Advance the pos past the end of the escape string. Pos is initially pointing at the u. On error, return the message id telling what went wrong and pos points at the error.

~~~nim
func parseHexUnicodeToString(text: string; pos: var Natural): OpResultId[string]
~~~

# slice

Extract a substring from a string by its Unicode character position (not byte index). You pass the string, the substring's start index, and its length. If the length is negative, return all the characters from start to the end of the string. If the str is "" or the length is 0, return "".

~~~nim
func slice(str: string; start: int; length: int): FunResult
~~~

# visibleControl

Return a new string with the tab and line endings and other control characters visible.

~~~nim
func visibleControl(str: string; spacesToo = false): string
~~~

# startColumn

Return enough spaces to point at the start byte position of the given text.  This accounts for multibyte UTF-8 sequences that might be in the text.

~~~nim
func startColumn(text: string; start: Natural; message: string = "^"): string
~~~


---
⦿ Markdown page generated by [StaticTea](https://github.com/flenniken/statictea/) from nim doc comments. ⦿
