# variables.nim

Language variable methods.

* [variables.nim](../src/variables.nim) &mdash; Nim source code.
# Index

* const: [outputValues](#outputvalues) &mdash; Tea output variable values.
* type: [Variables](#variables) &mdash; Dictionary holding all statictea variables in multiple distinct logical dictionaries.
* type: [VariableData](#variabledata) &mdash; A variable name and value.
* type: [ParentDictKind](#parentdictkind) &mdash; The kind of a ParentDict object, either a dict or warning.
* type: [ParentDict](#parentdict) &mdash; Contains the result of calling getParentDictToAddTo, either a dictionary or a warning.
* [`$`](#) &mdash; Return a string representation of ParentDict.
* [`==`](#-1) &mdash; Return true when the two ParentDict are equal.
* [newParentDictWarn](#newparentdictwarn) &mdash; Return a new ParentDict object of the warning kind.
* [newParentDict](#newparentdict) &mdash; Return a new ParentDict object containing a dict.
* [emptyVariables](#emptyvariables) &mdash; Create an empty variables object in its initial state.
* [newVariableData](#newvariabledata) &mdash; Create a new VariableData object.
* [getTeaVarIntDefault](#getteavarintdefault) &mdash; Return the int value of one of the tea dictionary integer items.
* [getTeaVarStringDefault](#getteavarstringdefault) &mdash; Return the string value of one of the tea dictionary string items.
* [resetVariables](#resetvariables) &mdash; Clear the local variables and reset the tea variables for running a command.
* [assignVariable](#assignvariable) &mdash; Assign the variable the given value if possible, else return a warning.
* [getVariable](#getvariable) &mdash; Look up the variable and return its value when found, else return a warning.
* [argsPrepostList](#argsprepostlist) &mdash; Create a prepost list of lists for t.
* [getTeaArgs](#getteaargs) &mdash; Create the t.

# outputValues

Tea output variable values.

```nim
outputValues = ["result", "stdout", "stderr", "log", "skip"]
```

# Variables

Dictionary holding all statictea variables in multiple distinct logical dictionaries.

```nim
Variables = VarsDict
```

# VariableData

A variable name and value. The dotNameStr tells where the variable is stored, i.e.: l.d.a

```nim
VariableData = object
  dotNameStr*: string
  value*: Value

```

# ParentDictKind

The kind of a ParentDict object, either a dict or warning.

```nim
ParentDictKind = enum
  fdDict, fdWarning
```

# ParentDict

Contains the result of calling getParentDictToAddTo, either a dictionary or a warning.

```nim
ParentDict = object
  case kind*: ParentDictKind
  of fdDict:
      dict*: VarsDict

  of fdWarning:
      warningData*: WarningData


```

# `$`

Return a string representation of ParentDict.

```nim
func `$`(parentDict: ParentDict): string
```

# `==`

Return true when the two ParentDict are equal.

```nim
func `==`(s1: ParentDict; s2: ParentDict): bool
```

# newParentDictWarn

Return a new ParentDict object of the warning kind. It contains a warning and the two optional strings that go with the warning.

```nim
func newParentDictWarn(warning: Warning; p1: string = ""; p2: string = ""): ParentDict
```

# newParentDict

Return a new ParentDict object containing a dict.

```nim
func newParentDict(dict: VarsDict): ParentDict
```

# emptyVariables

Create an empty variables object in its initial state.

```nim
func emptyVariables(server: VarsDict = nil; shared: VarsDict = nil;
                    args: VarsDict = nil): Variables
```

# newVariableData

Create a new VariableData object.

```nim
func newVariableData(dotNameStr: string; value: Value): VariableData
```

# getTeaVarIntDefault

Return the int value of one of the tea dictionary integer items. If the value does not exist, return its default value.

```nim
func getTeaVarIntDefault(variables: Variables; varName: string): int64
```

# getTeaVarStringDefault

Return the string value of one of the tea dictionary string items. If the value does not exist, return its default value.

```nim
func getTeaVarStringDefault(variables: Variables; varName: string): string
```

# resetVariables

Clear the local variables and reset the tea variables for running a command.

```nim
proc resetVariables(variables: var Variables)
```

# assignVariable

Assign the variable the given value if possible, else return a warning.

```nim
proc assignVariable(variables: var Variables; dotNameStr: string; value: Value;
                    operator: string = "="): Option[WarningData]
```

# getVariable

Look up the variable and return its value when found, else return a warning.

```nim
proc getVariable(variables: Variables; dotNameStr: string): ValueOrWarning
```

# argsPrepostList

Create a prepost list of lists for t.args.

```nim
func argsPrepostList(prepostList: seq[Prepost]): seq[seq[string]]
```

# getTeaArgs

Create the t.args dictionary from the statictea arguments.

```nim
func getTeaArgs(args: Args): Value
```


---
⦿ Markdown page generated by [StaticTea](https://github.com/flenniken/statictea/) from nim doc comments. ⦿
